Oh, I have a problem
Anybody just just super quickly before we start
Maybe you guys could help me with this
West what do I have here in my hands? What is this? You know what this is?
Let's see. That's your intro where Apollo boom. Wow. Good. I just figured you'd say laptop. Yeah, this is a laptop
This is the entryware Apollo that I'm holding in my little hand right here. So I'll hold it up
I got my stickers. I got a Gunter sticker on there and look at that
And you see what else I have on there Wes
I have I have a fedora sticker on there
And so I thought I should make that sticker not a liar and I this is what I loaded fedora 24
Keeping it on there. It was my road trip machine. Really? Wow. Yeah, I want to give it trying it out
I want to give a plug to no maps
No maps, I use a lot
I didn't use it exclusively but I use a lot of no maps on fedora 24 on the road trip
Wow, and it was really cool. So there's if you haven't tried out no maps. It's pretty cool and
I've been really happy with fedora 24 on the Apollo one problem though. Oh, oh, what is it?
I did the updates cuz you know me
I you want to stay updated even when I'm on a my fight connection on a road trip in an RV
I'm updating my packages. I mean you have to priority West is a priority
So I got all the updates installed went real good except for the latest kernel won't boot. It just won't boo
No, yeah, all the other bits work fine latest kernel will not boot and I just get a blank screen and I did some quick
Googling check on that old Colonel laying around do you know I well that's what I did
That's what I'm just yeah, they just keep it in the booming
I mean, it's it's recoverable because I just chose it from the other boot menu and I'm up and running
I did some searching around. I didn't find anything
So if anybody out there has a sky like Intel machine with into all Intel parts something kind of like the Apollo
Let me know if you've run in this problem and what you did to fix it
And it's also if there's a way I can blame it on the fact that I installed snap packages
Be sure to let me know at Chris LAS. That's right
Hang on a minute repeat the question
So I've got fedora 24 on the Apollo
All right, so I have good news Wes I've brought it with me
All right, so let's see you've done tech support before haven't you?
Mmm. In fact, I will reboot and I will give you the kernel list right out of the grub menu
So I'm getting it straight from the source. Wes will be my witness as mainline. That's right. That's right
Okay, so I'm rebooting right now sure boot rich boy
I tell you what it boots up and boots reboots real fast, but reboots real fast. So my kernel options are
The one that doesn't work is kernel four dot six dot three dash 300 so four dot six dot three dash 300
Okay, and then the one that does work is kernel four dot five dot seven dash 300
So four dot five dot seven was the you know
It was like pretty much the kernel it shipped with four dot six, which is the man
And here's here's the thing guys, and I don't mean to be this guy. I
Don't mean to be this guy
But if you go back and you look at my fedora 24 news coverage when the when kernel four dot six was announced and fedora
24 was delayed in last I suggested perhaps
Perhaps they ought to just delay it by one more week because that's all they would have had to play by one more week
It already been delayed and ship it right. It already been delayed by two or three
Mm-hmm, and then just ship it with kernel four dot six
So that way people who get updates don't get don't get their machines ruined and and Noah said to me. That's not necessary Chris
They would have to do a whole bunch of testing. They should just ship it later as an update
It won't be a problem. Well, you know what? I'm here to tell you Wes
I'm here to tell you not that it's unsolvable
I'm sure it will have a solution interesting statement for Noah to make I'm a little surprised
You could go back and watch the episode it is in the video
And so I'm here to tell you Wes that it might have been just a little bit better if they just would have shipped
It with four dot six. Yeah as a mainline feature
But that's okay. I'll get it working. Otherwise fedora 24 on the Apollo
Really nice like I just didn't even care about the battery. I was totally honey badger
It was I I mean probably six hours. I don't know. That's great
I was playing minecraft with my son over Wi-Fi not having to be worried about plugged in
There really is a slick little machine. Oh, yeah, super happy
I'm really glad I I put fedora on here just because
The the slick minimal gnome setup and I did a few tweaks to fedora with like Fetty and whatnot
It just makes for a great package
So if I get I think we need like Chris glasses guide to livable fedora or something like that
I'm working as you talk about it a lot. I'm gonna try I'm trying to keep fedora 24 on this bad
Mama jammer for as long as possible. So I'm working on it if I'm sure somebody out there has a fix for that
Yeah, probably maybe even by the end of the show. We'll have I saw one thread. I haven't read it yet
I put it in slang. All right. Okay, let's start the show
This is Linux unplugged episode 153 for July 12th
Oh
Welcome to Linux unplugged your weekly Linux talk show that's so packed full of content
We have one of those oversized load signs. It's kind of embarrassing. My name is Chris. My name is Wes
Oh, that's good to be back with you. Oh, it's wonderful to see your shining face. Oh, thank you. Thank you, you know to celebrate
The return from vacay. Yeah, I said it we have a great show. We have a great show
We have not only updates like so excited
I know we so West and I've been there's a topic we have been wanting to discuss for what four weeks a while now
Yeah, and it's it's sort of evolved in that time too. So it's perfect to talk about it this week
We'll get more of that later though
We also have a little tech support for Chris to do
I discovered my ISP is doing a like man-in-the-middle proxy on me
Intercepting SSL connections intercepting ACP connections. Yeah, that is wild. It's aggressive. It's nasty
I've got the netalyzer report where to talk about it and then maybe come up with a few ways
I could DIY or brainstorm or maybe a service I could work with that works great with Linux to get around some of these problems
It's also just good. If you have some privacy concerns, you want to protect your traffic online
We'll be discussing that and of course Linux user focused way in today's episode
There is big reviews hitting the web for the world's best Linux distribution
We'll tell you which distro that is what the reviews are saying
We've also got updates from the horse's mouth in here and then towards the end of the show
We're gonna talk about matrix. No, no, not not the neo kind of matrix and not the math thing
No, no, you know, it is an overused word as the chat room was saying earlier
Matrix is a technology. We talked about a long time ago really before I even really understood what slack was, right?
And it's such a better idea than slack. It's so much more than that because it's a bunch of open-source standards
It's a it is a platform
We have an interview with one of the developers. We have a major development in a
Pretty cool way that's come out. I think just in the last week or so. It's written in rust
It's gonna work with matrix. We're gonna tell you all about it and why you should even care about these words
I'm saying right now. So before we do any of that, let's bring in our virtual log time appropriate greens mama room
Hello guys, so we have right now some big breaking news to get to we have to start off with the biggest story in the
entire Linux ecosphere
Linux mint 18 is the best Linux desktop period ever ever
Stephen J says he's been using Linux for 25 years and today the best desktop is the latest version of Linux mint
Linux mint 18 Sarah with the cinnamon in a fit interface
Over at info world a gym does a roundup of different reviews
Hectic geeks is Linux 18 is how Linux should be done
Distro watch Linux mint 18 is stable and problem-free experience
Unix mint Linux mint 18 has it all Matthew Moore says two thumbs up for Linux mint 18 and
The reviews go on they're all positive. They're all super positive with and
You know what? I thought I thought this first comment. I'm not sure if it's the first comment anymore
Yeah, it's not the first comment anymore. Too bad. The first comment that was on Stephen's article summed it up for me
I
Hear this every single time with Linux mint and I generally give it a positive review myself
But I don't know if it's the best Linux period
I don't know if it's the best desktop distribution in 25 years
But boy the hyperbole is strong with this one, right and it almost makes me sort of want to repel from it
And it like just I just I don't want that. Mm-hmm. I
I when I looked at it. I thought it was it was adequate and good. I thought the improvements were nice
I think part of the part of the problem too here is that there's like I mean obviously you have to
What he doesn't mention as much as what the audience he's writing for here is
So I think if it if he's talking about people coming from Windows or new Linux users or people who just want a computer
Without any of the other joys and awesome things that Linux users know how to do then maybe that's right
Maybe that's right. Maybe that's true. I'm not sure that it is Wow. I am I am that is that is exactly the conclusion
I came to you nailed exactly what I was thinking like
Perfectly, this is if you like the Windows paradigm set it and forget it just you know
Like people will know what to do start menu
taskbar icons on the desktop
That if you like that paradigm this then this is a great distribution for you
If you like the UI that we came up with 25 years ago
30 years ago, or if you if you want to give if you want to give credit to Xerox
Yeah, right, you know
Okay
Then more than 30 years ago if that's the paradigm of desktop UI you want to go with and you think that's probably a good
Way to go for the next 5-10 years then Linux Mint 18 is a great desktop view. I mean they polished a lot
The X app still have a weird name, but they're not terrible
And you know it's a very pleasant and usable experience, but it's not exciting
And it's probably not I mean best probably if best means more than usable and what is expected then I don't know if it's I
Actually think it's a great release, and I'm I'm just sort of playing devil's advocate here because it obviously serves a market
And I think the donation model the donation revenue show that for Clem that people really like what he's doing here
So I think there is obviously a market that this still serves
I guess part of me what would part of me what it does actually if I'm being if I'm being sincere with my criticism
I would say the part that does repel me is
it feels like a lot of the credit goes to Ubuntu 1604 and
Then they put stuff on top of that like if you took out the Ubuntu stuff you took out the Ubuntu packages
And you took out of it it it feels like it gets attention in a way that
That Ubuntu flavors official flavors don't that's true. You're right. It's because it seemed people consider it more separate
Yeah, they consider it is but but it's but in some way that it is yeah
I mean not as much right in some ways
It's more it is just it is just an unofficial flavor that has a lot more
well, not even that a lot just its own custom packages on top of it and
But the way it's talked about is almost like it's its own entire operating system
If you think about if you think about the whole fact that the under the underlying
70% or maybe even arguably 90% of the operating system is created by somebody else
Does it still hold up that it's the best desktop ever when it's based on 90% of somebody else's work?
Maybe best desktop flavor ever
It's fine and fair to say that
Realistically speaking. It's our mentality that this is all one system. It actually screws this distribution
We just claim that there are different operating systems because they are they are free to diverge when they want
Free to make stupid decisions too true
So it's like just consider them different operating systems
Let them innovate on their own and then for once and for all we will actually look at well
This suits my purpose or not will be able to benefit from innovation things that are good to crossbreed
We crossbreed but the rest it's unique. I don't know if I completely agree wimpy. What are your thoughts on this?
It is it does this feel like?
90% of the work is being done by somebody else and that feels when you take the overall product
Into consideration you should factor that in or is it a completely separate beast?
Well when I started Ubuntu mate and it was unofficial
really what I was taking there was the Ubuntu base and a lot of the packages from the Ubuntu system and
Then adding the mate packages on top now to give you some idea right now
There are 35 packages that divine the Ubuntu mate bit
that sits on top of the Ubuntu bit and
And 35 packages is a very very small number of packages in totality when you compare everything else
Yeah, so my smiley with mint is mint is considerably more. Well, no
Well only because they choose to do that not because they have
Say the following though
When the user comes in and sees a set of experiences of pre
like we say that
Default is king happens to a lot of people they're coming for the default experience
That was curated even though they selected a base
They selected the reason did the enough necessary adjustments so that it makes that group feel at home
Yeah, I'd say that that's and also who's the first to answer in case of necessity?
If you are doing that and not just delegating to upstream. Hey go go bother Ubuntu guys
That's an Ubuntu issue if they're not doing that. They're actually taking responsibility for their system
I think it's fair to say that it's their work. I think that's an I think that's an interesting standard
And I think that is actually probably
That right there that that last piece is probably one of the clear markers that makes them their own beast versus a flavor
But yet technologically underneath still so much of the code is shared I guess the point I'm making is
Is it really the best I think that's overshooting I think I think when you make that statement
You're kind of subjective, right? Yeah qualifiers
So you can you can't never get best out of on being personal. So yeah, that will be that
Okay. So before we move on to something completely different any other thoughts on that topic?
Okay, so I see completely different
Let's talk about solace. Ike is here to tell I don't even know how this is possible because I've been told
That the process of transitioning to a rolling release is big
I mean if you ask the folks over at openSUSE or canonical
They've ever implemented in the case of openSUSE or in canonical considered going rolling release
Apparently you have to reinvent all of the things and reconsider all of the things but somehow
Somehow when you're a small nimble distribution that distribution that keeps surprising us that's all of us from I key and team over there
In fact, there's a post here by Josh that talks about
Their latest release of solace basically becoming indefinitely supported because the distros going rolling I key. How can you do this?
Are you crazy? I've heard this is unstable. What are you doing to us all?
Well, I mean obviously I'm crazy anyway
Okay, good good check that one's totally confirmed but I mean as for going rolling
It's it's kind of easier for us because we stuck we suck at trying to do the whole stable model
Like we're really really not good at it. We're better at doing the rolling stuff
I mean for an example solace has already got like
Mesa 12.0 and we was using the RC for to land open jail 4.3 and so already like we already had that stuff in
We got GCC 5.3. D. Lipsy 2.2 free
So we kind of sucked at not being rolling
It seems like you guys have have opted for stability in key areas
Like one that I think a lot of people would appreciate that want to do gaming is
Graphic stack seems to be pretty on target remains pretty like like that's a goal of yours to keep that stable, correct? Oh
Yeah, definitely the graphic stack. It's basically sacred and solace
yeah, so there are elements of solace that you're very more cautious with but it seems like you just I mean like for example like you
Said you just ended up put to make it great ended up putting a lot of this newer stuff in there
So what is the transition like to go from rolling?
Is that just now you'll just update the repos more often that's all that really changes or is there actually more changes behind the scene?
well, I mean
You gave the examples like open Zeus and you know, like the the other initials. They're they're designed differently than solace was
I mean our packaging is completely different
Everything is that little bit more simpler the way that we maintain packages and the way that that worked out
It's actually easier to do a rolling release than it would be to make it static because we haven't had a solace to yet
Have we right right? So we're still in this one particular repo
So we don't have all that infrastructure in place that says that it just has to go into this repo
And then it goes into that other repo and this is how you branch between them
So we don't actually have anything to undo which makes it a lot easier for us. I got you it won't be you had a question
Yeah, I key. I was just wondering if you've had to
devise or communicate any new rules
In order to support being a rolling release or is it just business as usual now?
Well, I mean it's not strictly
Business as usual to support this you're gonna you know yourself
You're gonna have to have a few tooling changes in places
The main thing that we have to avoid now is a BI breaks
So anyone who's ever been on a full rolling release
We'll know the horror and pain of one day getting an update to something like lib png and their system no longer
Yeah, I mean for things like that we have to completely avoid but that just means building slightly extra tooling around Y package to generate
ABI reports so we will know in advance that something is going to break and these reverse dependencies need
Unbreaking before we then sync them. So we've got the unstable repo which is like do not touch this
Do not ever use this unless you are on IRC 24-7 and that's kind of what we've always had
That's the immediate dumping ground of the builder
But once those have proven themselves and we're all right with them
They then get synced back into the main repo and then all the main repo users get the updates
This is having the mechanics to handle SO bumps for example and rebuilding all of the affected packages
Yeah, I mean I would say that would be the the main problem with that especially have you had something like a junior to it
TLS if I got an update and you don't want a brick network manager, for example, because then nobody can ever get an update again
Which bit of a problem evil out
What about?
Approaches to patching upstream you planning to ship up stream
As vanilla as possible or are you going to be carrying distribution patches?
So in the majority of cases we try and carry things as vanilla as we can in some cases that doesn't always work
There's some kind of build issue or it doesn't quite work with the way that things got installed
But I mean, I think that's kind of standard distro weight that you would have anyway versus technical debt
and so but these these are to support the build system rather than to change behavior or
Look and feel for example, right?
And there's only a very minimal amount of places that we've done anything that would impact the look and feel
That was things like the default G sentence schemas, but that's because we ship budget by default
We've actually shipped we've started moving away from that and doing everything in a single branding package
Which doesn't provide all the relevant overrides like you would do with a bunch of matte. Yeah
So keeping everything as vanilla as we can because then you have less of a diff to worry about if a new update comes through
Well, you haven't got to read base a dozen batches
Which obviously makes life that much easier because it's just a bump. Mm-hmm
So also along with all of those things
There is an improvement to YPKG package manager, which I don't
Just to explain this to me like I've never used
YPKG before I key what what is the benefit of supporting?
Git as a source. I have an idea, but I just wonder if you could actually explain it to me from your mouth
Well, there's a couple of reasons to support this and not everyone has the infrastructure to actually distribute their own tarballs
So if you look at something like gnome
They have hundreds of tarballs going back years and years like to gnome 2.x and they're fine to do that
not all the projects can do that and quite often the tarballs go missing or the tarballs aren't generated and
You know like a lot of the projects now aren't even bothering to generate the tarballs anymore
They you know, they're relying on get up github tags, which are auto generating a complete not a nightmare
Yeah, I'm like most of the arch AUR packages
So the way that we're gonna do it is if something is good only we're gonna support the git and then you'll be able to download
It via a tag, which is you know, especially what you want to do
You want an immutable tag an immutable point in history?
So we'll be able to build directly from get now, which it just opens up options for yeah, I guess
Wow, I gotta say
Almost almost on a damn near weekly basis your project has something that makes me go. That's kind of cool
And I'm in particular the rolling. It's just the fact that I won't have to worry about. Yeah that yeah
But but also going to but also having some confidence that you know
My graphic stacks probably gonna be pretty solid which means that when I want to chill out and play video games or feels like a nice
Mix like you're optimizing the results not just new things or staying stable. It's a happy medium
Yeah, I mean if I might elaborate on that whole graphics thing
So, I mean obviously I knew straight away when I was doing, you know
Like the work we did there with Linux team integration the solar steam run time
Obviously, I knew how important that was already, but I only recently got to experience that fully for the first time myself
So I bought an optimist laptop for solace because we have to enable these evil things
And it's like an Nvidia GTX 765 em, I think so if like for me
This is the first time I've basically bought anything with a graphics card since I was
So, I mean that was like an ino3d GeForce FX 5200 tornado
Sacrifices you make for the user base. Yeah, so I finally got this one. It's like, okay
I'm gonna try out these games that everyone else is playing
So originally I put Ubuntu on it because I wanted to see yeah, I know I went in using over distro
I know I'm bad, but I wanted to see how optimist support actually worked and how it was implemented in other places
So I put Ubuntu on it and it was basically a case of either use the Nvidia or don't
So I was okay, which basically brings your battery life down from something like four hours to 40 minutes. Yeah, seriously
It's like you are screwed. You're going nowhere. Keep the plug in or you're gonna die and you're done
So I was playing it on that and I was playing
Counter-Strike Global Offensive never played it for me life
And I was like, I'm gonna have a go at this and it was it was running
Okay, but I had to put it down up to medium settings
So at some stage I completely bricked the Ubuntu install because apparently I don't know how Debian and Ubuntu work anymore
I've just forgotten
So I put Solus on it completely forgot about all the settings didn't bother putting the change in any of the settings
But CS go on there and it was running like really fluidly and I was like does Steam sync the graphic settings?
So I had to look at it and on Solus
it was running on the high settings whereas I had to put it on the medium sentence because I was lagging on Ubuntu with the
Ubuntu 1204 runtime that comes to Steam and there was a
definite performance
Increase just by using a newer runtime
So it's not me saying that you know
Like Solus magically makes it fast or anything like that because you know
Then we'd have to have benchmarks and we'd have to have pissing contests
I know that's right sure but just by having the newer updated stack like Steam ran infinitely better
Yeah
So I'm kind of hoping that other projects now adopt that philosophy and try and go for their own native updated
Yeah, as somebody who's tested that myself, I completely agree
I don't know. We see a lot of the updates from like Phyronix reviews and other things talking about graphics tech
So it's like exciting to see those features in your hands. Yep. So
So right now I see a wimpy in the chatroom says he's hiding his laptop running Solus
So right now if I go download the Solus ISO and I install that version
Will I effectively be on a rolling release immediately?
Yeah, basically, but what I would do is wait until
Sunday when 1.2.1 comes out. I know I'm always dropping bombshells
So 1.2.1 is gonna come out on Sunday and the reason is that's got a couple of minor installer fixes as
Well as full disk encryption and all that crap
There was there was a tiny little bug which came up with two users
One of them was funny enough with Softpedia who installed Solus on a Chromebook
No, as you do. Yeah, sure, of course
Yeah, as you do. Yeah, but there was a minor bug that was encountered on there that would crash the installer
So that's since been fixed
But yeah, it's basically gonna be on you're on this repo and we don't break you and you keep running Solus forever
So once that's done we get to do the cool stuff like put in known 3.2
Oh and you know update more of the graphical stack and all the core libraries. You hear that Fedora 24?
You better get your act together
All right, Solus is chasing you
That Apollo is looking hungry for a new distro right now, you know, it's got that look in its eyes
Well, thank you. I keep for stopping by and giving us an update on that. I
Sounds like a very interesting development
So I I want to do a little discussion with you guys about a problem
I ran into just over the last couple of days. In fact, I'll give you the whole story
I'll give you the whole like disappointing like you guys will totally feel my pain story
And I have a feeling in that discussion digital oceans gonna come up
So let's do the pluggy plug right now for digital ocean go over there and use the promo code do unplug to get a $10
credit that's one word lowercase just
Smoosh it all together do unplugged. It's a simple cloud hosting provider with their entire infrastructure built around Linux
They use KVM for the virtualizer, which I mean, I personally think KVM is the best virtualizer out there. I
Love KVM. I if I build my own virtual machines
I use KVM and so they're checking two boxes right there with Linux and KVM and then the third box that they check is their entire
Infrastructure is SSDs and then the fourth box that they check seriously
I'd be happy with three of these things at this point so many boxes
The fourth thing is they have great internet connections into these boxes and then there's a five. Yes. There's five things
There's five things. They also have a great interface. Oh, there's six six. There's six things. Yeah
Oh my gosh, I forgot about this
They also have like this incredible API that oh the API
We use on a daily basis here on Jupiter broadcasting to like control it with our chat room by but
No, it couldn't be seven West. Well, I can have every operating system. Yeah, pretty much that you ever want to install
I mean, they've got even even free BSD. Yeah, right and I guess I
Guess there could be an eighth
The really really good documentation like the stuff that gives that makes the arch wiki look like amateur hour
And I love the arch wiki. We all do we all do
Don't tell the people over at digital ocean that they're really great documentation would basically be applicable to any Linux installation because they might stop
doing it
Digital ocean calm use the promo code do one plug
Smooch it all together and get a $10 credit
You could try the $5 rig for two months for free or you could run a rig
That's whatever spec you want and just use it hourly like, you know
Spin it up create something and then destroy it
The serious part about this is is like I joke around but one of my favorite things about digital ocean is you can spin up
a rig instantaneously practically and you can have an entire application stack or a base rig and
when you combine the ease of doing that with you know being able to base it on templates or previous images and
The hourly pricing and our promo code it basically comes down to you can have incredible compute power up in the cloud
As much as you want for like nothing for a while using our promo code deal unplugged and you support the show
That keeps us going because the way they track this instead of us
Collecting data on who watches the show and what parts of the show you watched and where you watched it from and what?
Your age is and what your sex is and how much money you make and when's the last time you've heard Jupiter broadcasting?
Ask you to take an audience survey
When's the last time we don't do that? I don't want your data
I just want your downloads and then when you use the promo code deal unplugged
That's the only mechanism they have to track to know that it worked. That's the arrangement. We have there's no data sharing here
There's no like stitcher like all the information kind of being shared
You use the promo code deal unplugged that registers as a use over there that says hey our investment at Jupiter broadcasting is paying off
That's the system you get a credit we get acknowledgement digital ocean gets a new customer
It's a super slick system, and it doesn't involve a whole bunch of spying data
I think that's pretty cool, so you get great product everybody wins digital ocean comm use the promo code deal unplugged
And a big thank you digital ocean for sponsoring the unplugged program
Okay, so I'm looking right here
I got a net Eliza report high-end stuff here West and if you guys haven't heard of now
Which you probably have because it's forever old you can get the ICSI net Eliza command-line client
It's just so fun to say yeah, the real you know the real actual nice tool is an Android app. It's legitimately nice
Oh, really. I love it, but they also have a Java applet that you can download just a jar
Then run on the command line, and then it generates you a fairly impressive comprehensive report and what it revealed to me
was
That I was behind an HTTP and HTTPS proxy and also intercepting FTP connections
Yeah, and it'll tell you this as well, and it does it by using a few different metrics
But primarily they know what I'm connecting what IP
I'm connecting from and what IP I'm connecting to and if there's something in between us
So if the request originates for my IP
But the actual connection they don't see it and that comes from a different IP then they know it's been proxied and they have
A couple different tests to verify that they've also indicated that some of my DNS results are getting kind of mushed up in here
Oh, no, just a popular websites like city. Yeah here. Yeah right here
So six popular names have been have moderate anomalies
We are unable to find a reverse name associated with the IP address provided by your ISPs DNS server
Although we expected to find a name and it's for things like chase comm Wells Fargo comm
yahoo.com
Their DNN what it is, and I've done some additional testing after this is their DNS server my ISPs DNS server
in some cases
Has a here it is has a six thousand and one hundred millisecond response time to my DNS queries six
Thousand millisecond response time to my DNS queries pretty suspicious. Yeah, it's bad bad bad
So why is it so bad well let Chris tell you a story here ladies and gentlemen
For many reasons some of which are economic. I live in an RV. I love it. I would not change a thing
I love it. I live on the coast the road the west coast is beautiful. It sure is I live right there on the water
I couldn't be happier about that
And it's only possible because I live in an RV
And I don't own the space. I just I have it for it's an RV thing anyways
There is no way to get a data connection out there. There's no Comcast. There's no Verizon. There's no frontier
There's no wire. That's gonna come to where I'm at the only data connection. I can get is over cellular
You're like living in the future man
It is a little it is a little like that in some ways because it's also like living in the past more
Yeah, uh-huh in some ways. It's like wow look at me
No wires everything's wireless all my media consumption everything
I do is over is over a my fight connection and that does in some ways feel like this probably the way it's gonna go
Down the road, but in other ways my fight connections, especially where I live are extremely unreliable
There's only one provider out of all of the US providers in the area
So where I live and you can look it up on anybody's coverage map is I live on the coast in La Conner Washington
There's only about 900 of us there, so you can actually probably come find me pretty easily
and there is
Tribal land all around us and the tribes don't allow
cellular tower installations I see there is however one state-owned island
Where they have been able to install one AT&T tower, and that's your service
And so
On the island this is a particular particular situation
I got into recently where I discovered there is a thing and I don't want to give too much information away
But there's a thing such as grandfathered unlimited plans that you can purchase on eBay
There's not a lot of them. They're getting expensive. I so I may know some people with yeah
And when you purchase when you purchase one of these things you essentially
You you adopt or you I guess sublease would be the better you sub rent if you will a or purchase if you have a lot
of money a
Unlimited AT&T account you're buying a contract or renting somebody in the car. Yeah, yeah
And so I went that route as an experiment because for me data connectivity is pretty essential, so I've got
I have every I have every provider because one of the nice things about ting who is a sponsor of ours
Yeah, you get to I get CMA and GSM and and I don't have to worry about caps now
I will have to spend more if I want to use a whole bunch of data, but I know right so that is
Super nice, then I have a Verizon
MiFi which is like like a like a like a five giga or something and they have like a no contract plan
And that's the one I never use unless I have to because it's like the only Verizon in town
That's I'm in Wyoming on highway 90 and the only person here is Verizon
That's because this is literally something I drive I drives right so I'm like I just got back from Montana where there was
When you go through the passes, there's just no connectivity and even though I have every cellular provider in the RV
There's no connectivity so and and also
I should say I should probably disclose the ting has provided me with a miFi
That I have been I have been using for quote-unquote testing for a while now
To in some ways legitimately test the ting network as I move around to get a true sense of what ting is like right?
I mean Europe and as long as I don't go as long as I don't go crazy
They don't they don't worry about the data on that line
So that's nice. That's where I'm at is is only AT&T
So I've gotten this old AT&T miFi this used AT&T miFi, and I've this is what I've been connecting the
lady Jupiter Network to
Be you know what outside the fire your main
And I've recently so you remember that you remember that device. You got me that
Was a firewall that I could connect the miFi to that's right
Yeah, so about about two months ago when Noah was in town
for
last 10 year anniversary or whatever whenever whenever that was
We upgraded that to a cradle point Wi-Fi access point. Oh wow that allows me to
Who doesn't well it does a few interesting things I can connect my files to it
And then it will share that miFi connection with the LAN I can connect it to another Wi-Fi network
So if I repeat it so if I take lady Jupiter to an RV park that has Wi-Fi I can connect to that and then it
Repeats it to my LAN and I can connect it to Ethernet and it will repeat that so it's really cool
That is really neat, and so I got that set up
It's all and I'm like wow this is a huge upgrade, and I have them
I have a persistent LAN now which was hit or miss yeah, so now I always have a persistent LAN regardless of signal
Which is really fantastic and it all runs off an inverter that runs all the time even if if lady
Jups is disconnected from power those things run off of an inverter that's connected directly to my battery bank
So my LAN is always online. It's like the house is a built-in UPS real network
It's great, and that's amazing. I get the miFi. I get it all hooked up and
I have negative
114 DB signal and for those of you that maybe that's like
Less than one bar one bar
Negative 118 is no bars for where I'm at so one negative 114 DB is pushing it man that
How do you like the edge network it were yeah?
well actually it's a little better, but it was like it was 300 K down and about 96 kilobits up so
Awful yeah, okay, and that was that was sort of the situation for a couple of months. No big deal
I just went all offline on everything. Yeah, whatever you know what I just went
I doubled down on cody and local media end up at the studio or other places sometimes you can studio has a hundred megabit down
So that's fine, so that was my solution for a while
But then I I started thinking about wanting to be able to do productions on the road in September
I'm going to go to a linux conference
and I'm taking lady Jupiter down there, and I want to be able to do shows from the road totally and
That's when I started looking into a new product built for RVs called
We boost RV and this does a 60 DB boost of all cellular network providers signal
So it just increases your antenna size basically or it takes it
It takes so say for so for example where I at my primary campsite where I'm parked I go from a hundred and negative
114 negative 112 depending on the day signal to about negative
Rhythms everyone remember it is it is a huge boost so I went from a so I went from on a on a good day
600 K on a bad day
196 KB you know like really bad to now I'm clocking six megabits down six megabits up wow
And I went from a ping time of a real usability improve
I went from a ping time of around three hundred and eighty milliseconds to thirty two milliseconds thirty two yeah
By the way the studios ping time right now is not much better. It's twenty two point seven so Comcast is taking the crap right now
So anyways the huge you so it's again. It's we boost RV
It's extremely tricky to set up because the the antenna that receives the cellular signal
Yeah
And the internal antenna that boosts to your devices have to be far far enough apart that they don't pick each other up and just
Create it yep
And so that I got all that worked out and then I and so then it started to become a matter of well
Why why now that I have six megabits?
Why am I still getting horrible page load times? Why am I getting horrible?
So I I started looking at so I set up a local DNS server
Yeah, of course naturally so I set up a little did you go with I said
Oh, I just set all up on the on the cradle point. Oh nice. Oh wow yeah
Yeah, once you go into advanced mode. It has a DNS server all that kind of stuff and so that was super easy
Then I started running netalyzer and so again
I'll have a link to netalyzer you can run it on your linux rig if you have Java or you can run on Android
and again, it's Java and
It clearly showed it clearly showed that I was behind a proxy server and because this is a my fight connection on AT&T
To me it makes sense that they would probably be proxying people's traffic the problem
There's a lot of like carrier grade net that goes on with yes
Cellular stuff and the problem is is I do not like AT&T as a company
I do not trust AT&T and I definitely have a reseller of AT&T is my primary phone
So I have experienced exactly the same thing and I don't want AT&T knowing everywhere
I go on the web absolutely not especially because honestly the super cookie thing
Yeah, and and honestly I search for some disturbing stuff for unfiltered like I don't really want that associated with who I am as a person
Because it's does it is not representative of business
It's a research thing and it's not representative of who I of who I am and so but they have no idea like boy
He sure looks up a lot of things about Vladimir Putin like no. I don't
I don't have a thing for Putin. I mean yeah, I love that he wrestles bears with his shirt off
But that's not a thing of mine, and I really want to come up with a solution that is super Linux friendly that
Avoids this problem now. It doesn't have to be network level if I could just do it on my laptop and my lady's laptop
Okay, yeah, but so she's running Matei, and I'm running gnome
I'd like to have and I would love to have something to integrate some with the desktop environment if possible
So for her it's just an easy toggle on toggle off like it would be if she had a Mac or right god forbid a Windows box
I'm sorry was Chris. You're scaring everyone. I'm sorry was
And I I was I got a few suggestions. I've got IPV IP VPN
I've gotten private interface and of course tink has been a topic before oh right, but the solution the problem
I'm trying to solve in this particular case is I want something that is as fast as possible
I just want to tunnel around my ISP as much as possible and the other thing that's particularly tricky is I think sometimes like the my
Phi
When I go to like look up where my IP is or when things try to do can we access your location in my browser?
They show that I'm in Dallas when I'm in Washington mm-hmm, so it I don't know where I've seen that as well
I don't know how they're routing that it might be one horrendous gnat that we're all behind
I don't know, but I would like something that is
Is performant yeah, that is easy to?
Enable and also definite points for something that's easy to set up because I try out so many different distros
And then I take them home. I don't want to have to like load a kernel module to do like
What's the new one? We just talked about wire guard wire guard or I you know?
I don't want to have to install a whole bunch of pack
I mean I could do it
But it needs to be something that's fairly straightforward to get going on different distros and whatnot to if possible
I don't know West does anything come to mind for you. I mean I've used a few different like private vendor VPN providers
Tor guard comes to mind private internet access is one that's in the news a lot and talked about and they have
Fairly good cipher suite selection and that kind of thing
I do I know I've had some friends playing with like getting that all integrated with network manager in no particular
You know like having the the open VPN files open VPN probably should be pretty reasonable performance obviously
There's a lot of like that was sort of one of the things I was thinking about was open VPN on a digital ocean droplets
but at the same time I don't want to be I don't want to be in the position where I'm here at work and
Hadid is at home and all of a sudden VPN is not working and now I need to go troubleshoot an installation
So that's not that's not huge on my list
But there are I have seen some scripts out there that will you can kind of get it like
Where it'll when you want to use the VPN?
I mean you'd have to make like a gooey a desktop file or something for her maybe but for you if you could run a
Script it could spin up a droplet
Install everything provision it start everything so you might have a little bit more of like it might have a delay
But it would be more reproducible and then turning it off and on again might actually fix it
So let's see tech may have links to a digital ocean
Tutorial on setting up a basic VPN on a boot to 14 of course
There's also a fair number of options SSH will be less efficient of course
but there's both the socks proxy and using it as a ton and so nobody wants to say go with something like
Tunnel bear or I mean I will say I I use tour guard just for some so tour guard is not
Thing they're just using the name tour. Yeah, I think they also like they have servers that allow torrents
Oh, oh, oh well, okay, so yeah, okay, so this is obviously not the main concern here
So anonymous VPN service, so you're not gonna say they're the best
I've been grandfathered in on like a really good deal
So I pay like two dollars and fifty cents a month or less or something okay?
They have a very number of services private internet access is fairly well-reviewed
They just had a big thing in Russia where they're pulling out of Russia because Russia is required has a new law requiring them
To keep logs, so they're shutting down their rush and say they don't do that's hard to audit
I know on the our Linux subreddit
They've had it posted a few times like a someone has made a great list and review of these VPN services and obviously for the VPN
Services what you're really paying for is like hiding amongst the crowd
otherwise and and you know using their servers in different countries otherwise if you're just concerned about
Proxying past your immediate ISP DigitalOcean works just fine for that too. Hmm
So I've seen Nord VPN and IP vanish does anybody in the mumble room have any suggestions for either a DIY or DIY or?
a service that they
trust and like
It's pretty scary to realize when you're being you know yeah, that's the ensuring trust hard. Yeah
I
Definitely will see I was hoping to hear from somebody who's like yes
I like these people and yes
they they acknowledge that Linux exists and like so I looked into like for example TunnelBear because that's when I've seen advertised on YouTube and
The thing about TunnelBear is like you feel like they begrudgingly support Linux like they kind of I guess what kind of support
I know a lot of them have their own custom clients, but I would like have like an open VPN
That's that's true as long as they do
I would love this here's what I really want from that is I want to link somebody something here read this
That's really what I want
Which is what I don't really have if I roll myself either
You're the support person and then and then the I guess the the other question is is am I going about this all wrong?
Should I just not worry about it? I?
Feel like maybe even from a performance standpoint. I should worry about it
You know even if it's not from a data so if you're at least especially if what those DNS numbers that you're talking
Yeah, and I fixed that by just using my own local DNS
But you know I didn't even think about the fact that the router would just pass on the DNS from the eye whoever
Wants to use their is peace DNS right disgusting. Yeah, there's open VPNs
AWS image count
So this is an instance that I would run on AWS that would probably haul balls
Hmm well their blessed image now look at Rekha here Rekha is also linking to viper VPN who I've heard of before
From golden from golden frog calm, and it's their golden frog support here it talks about
Using Ubuntu, and I like that like they tell you they tell you what packages to install so that's doable because then
Yeah, I'm gonna have to play with this and maybe I could I'm gonna have to see maybe people know a good review somewhere
They reviews they reviewers they trust from there from like a security and performance template because that's the other thing yeah
You can read reviews about these things
And I don't really care if the VPN service provider knows what I'm doing. I don't really care about that
No, I what I really really care about is performance, and I would like the fundamental technology to be sound yeah, right right
I don't like you want cyphers that aren't ten years old you want mm-hmm
Yeah, and it's maybe they're maybe the best and maybe it's worth the exercise of setting it up myself
I just you know I've run VPN service before in the past
But they were friend users where I had to constantly reset password
I will say digital ocean or some of the other ones have some exciting possibilities where you could have a step where it pings some
Of their test servers or DC's and figures out what the best place to spin up your new VPN proxy is
Which could be particularly good from a Wi-Fi right right the?
Private Internet access has some Linux support as compatibility things
But they also have a thing where you can set it up where DDWRT uses their stuff. Yeah, that'd be nice
Network level does make it simpler especially if you know that you're always being tracked. That's true the other nice thing about that is then
I don't ever have to worry about distribution reloads or work and if it breaks you're fixing it for yourself. Just as much as
Huh yeah, that's just the problem is that I don't I look through the cradle point software
And I didn't see anything that talked about VPN so support
So I would have to run a separate device and probably put it in between and right and to give you an idea
All of this is running under my dinette, which is also
means it's in a very small tight space because they're under they're under benches if it net and you're
Rolling home here, but the awesome thing is is if you came over to the
RV right now you would have no idea that I'm doing this because I ran everything
I brought the wiring in through where the slides at and it goes right up into the into the benches
And so you can't see any of the oh, that's so cool
Which when you think about the limited counter space and whatnot in an RV that is such a win to have
I just I have I have extremely powerful Wi-Fi because it's it's it's a 40. It's 47 feet long
So our 37 feet long so it doesn't it it's not like you need the craziest Wi-Fi router ever pretty reasonable
Everywhere in everywhere in my campsite. I'm on Wi-Fi which is great
That is awesome because I don't have cell signal out there so that be able to be on Wi-Fi
Through the one unlimited AT&T. My fight thing is perfect
And this is really the last little bit is this and I think also blog they also are in apparently intercepting FTP connections
They don't mess with VPN or SSH though
You know, I've seen some stuff on on AT&T stuff weird stuff too. Like I was playing with one of those. What's that?
like separate
Terminal for Android that do you know what I'm talking about? No
No, but I probably have used it like way back in the day termux
That's what it's called. Okay, and they have their own repos and stuff so you can install it without root and have like without having
Installed I like that West we can talk about it
But I noticed that like over just the cell signal I couldn't hit the repos and once IVP end up boom
No problem download it instantly. So it's like you really you really can't trust the major wireless carriers to provide you with the kind of
Pure uplink you would get from like a business grade or you know when you're running your own BGP
I sad to say I don't think I'm gonna be able to do that
I sad to say I don't think I'm I don't know
I don't think I don't think I've come to a solution
I don't know if I have anybody in the mummer room any other thoughts before we move on?
I like that some good suggestions in the chat room
Chris Lael had a question regarding your issue with your ISP. Oh, what was it? I didn't see it
Sorry, I think it went by before I got a chance to catch it
No, I just was talking to
WW and SX for that. Um, my question is
Well, if I understand what you're trying to do is you're trying to get around the
Bandwidth block that your ISP is doing. Is that correct?
It's not so much that I wouldn't call it a bandwidth block
I would say that it would appear that the proxy server itself is in
Introducing a certain amount of additional load time and latency
And I just don't like them tracking and watching everywhere I go and doing their soup
I would also I would I would presume that's where the super cookie injection happens as well. Yeah as you leave their network. Yeah
All right. So
When I was in my networking class
This is the question I had for my teacher and maybe this applies to you and maybe it doesn't
As I understand it what ISPs do is they get a block of addresses and they have a certain amount of bandwidth
that they can
Divvy out to those that block
and so
I'm not sure if what you're trying to do is getting around that divvying or if I would think if there's any if there's any
Bandwidth controls that's going to be at a much lower level
Uh, that's not happening at the proxy level. That's at the proxy level
That's a protocol level application layer thing where you're looking at the individual
HTTP connections and traffic and the images and the and the web page is being sent back
Um, and in the cases of an HTTPS proxy
Uh, you may in some cases actually have like some sort of way
You know corporate proxy servers do this too where they they actually have a signed certificate where they can
Be a man in the middle for HTTPS traffic or maybe they're just passing it on who knows
But if they're actually doing any kind of throttling or quality of service control that's going to be happening at the network level
That's going to be happening, you know, probably
And I know this for a fact actually based on conversations
I've had that can even actually happen at the individual cell site level and
That doesn't happen at the centralized proxy server which appears to be in dallas from from what I can tell but what it does mean is
Where performance does become a factor is instead of my HTTP traffic going to directly to the end destination
It is going through a data center in dallas first and the problem is is any any
Performance issues in but yeah, and they're and every stop of the route every hop of that trace route
Where you could work between me and that proxy server could be a potential point of slow down performance issues increase latency
And you know that they're running it through some sort of edge box that's doing processing tracking index
So like they're actually they're doing image
They're looking at the packets. Yeah, you just want them to pass it through like a dump pipe, right?
And so what I want to do with a VPN is I just I just want to give my my my web traffic
a clear path to the end VPN point and then out to the web from there which in
Hopefully would be a quicker setter shorter set of routes because when you do non HTTP traffic
You don't go down to Dallas. So that's my hope. I've also had pretty good experience with I don't know about necessarily on
Cellular I haven't tried it there but on like Comcast or other like commodity home connections
Sure, where all I'll just use SSH with as a layer 3 device making a ton device
To a do droplet that I spin up. Hmm, and I have I have several machines in Europe that sometimes I want to sync larger files
between let's just say and
I don't know if it's just congestion more at my local level
But even just proxying to like a droplet in San Fran and then using their pipe to Europe
I can all max out Mike my local connection. No problem where I'm pulling like two megs down. Otherwise, so yeah
I've run into this too. I run that same thing
You do you can maybe benefit too from other providers better connections to other areas once you've gotten out of your local area
Yeah, well interesting. Okay. So if you have suggestions if you have ideas Linux action show dot reddit dot-com or
Tweet me at Chris Elias if you just want to link me to a service you use and trust now
I would love that it's just one less thing
I have one of my goals in the in the any Rover incarnation that I have and this one
I hope to be the most teched out ever is
Even though I want I want to have like crazy cool stuff in there. I only want to be
managing and installing stuff that's really necessary if I can use if I can use something because
The content of my data is not the paramount issue here. It's a consideration, but it's not the paramount issue
I feel like it does open it up to potentially using a service provider because I'm just not super concerned about that aspect
Yeah, right. I'm not looking at kid porn or something. Yeah anonymity is not the major concern
We just want to get around your local ISP, you know, and it sucks to even have to worry about it
It's 2016 and these practices should have gone out in the 90s
and if you want to have if you want to just break away from this and you want a service provider who just wants to
Make mobile simple and give you a data pipe check out ting
If I go to linux dot ting comm when I hit the road and my ting my my fi I activate that thing
I've got the netgear ting my fi and
The thing I love about that son of a gun is it's got an LCD screen right on the front and before I got that
I was like, oh, that's a gimmick. What a waste of battery
Well, first of all turns off right away and second of all the thing has a ridiculous battery
The thing has a bigger battery than the thing has such a big battery. You can actually charge other devices with it
that's how big the battery is and
the
LCD screen gives you real-time data usage right there on the my screen
Awesome, very nice when you have three four five six devices pulling data off this thing super nice
Plus gives you a list of all of the Wi-Fi clients ting is mobile that makes sense. It's no contract. It's no early termination fee
The arrangement is you just pay for what you use. So for me
This works out pretty well when I go on the road. I do end up using more data on my phone
I do end up making more calls and I don't really change my texting at all
and so the month of July might be
One of my more expensive ting months. It might actually be like a fifty five month fifty five dollar sixty dollar bill possibly
That's what three phones, you know
That's traveling from Washington to Montana and back for eight days like that that's gonna happen
Yep, the rest of the year my ting bill is like thirty bucks
And I mean it's just there's nothing that beats that so ting has a savings calculator you go in there you put in your information
See how much you would save try them out. See if you're that's the litmus test. See if you're a good fit
It really feels like wireless for adults, you know, it's yeah. Yeah, of course
I want to tether yeah, and I don't mind I you know when you're on Wi-Fi you use it and we're like, yes
I used your service. I'll pay you the fair market rate for your service
And for those of us who really kind of get sick and tired of the whole OEM holding back the updates paradigm
and like especially when you follow tech news and you know that there's crazy exploits out there and there's some of these things are just
running kernels full of holes and
That kind of stuff eats away at you when you're a tech savvy user that one of the things that's great about ting is
They have there's no incentive structure in their business to withhold updates to get in that to even to even get in that position
So one of the things I I think the sweet spot is now you get a Nexus device
Yes, they put the 6p in the 5x on sale just about every other week. The 6p is on sale again right now on that
Yeah, I'm prime day. Yeah
It's like a hundred and it's like 150 bucks or something and the 6p was like 400. Yeah, it's just check them out
So you get you get you get one of the Nexus devices either one still a good phone and you yeah
Maybe it doesn't have edge screens or something, but it is a fully up-to-date
Monthly updated Android device Android and it's you put it on the ting network. They don't have any contracts
There's no locking of the phones. Nothing like that. They have GSM and CDMA and I just threw a link
Their GSM SIM cards are on sale right now one dollar one dollar. I'm buying I'm gonna buy. I'm gonna buy like ten
I should probably tell Noah. Yeah, actually. Yeah, if you have telegram on that I will you should tell him because you'll buy a whole batch
Because it's ridiculous because you can hold on to those SIM cards and then put them in when you're ready and then you just pay for
What you use no contract just start by going to the linux.ting.com
That gets you $25 in service credits if you buy one of those $1 sims
So then so then you have $25 of service credit, which is that's great. Yep
That's gonna get you more through more than like for a month like and and then if you want to buy a device instead
They'll give you $25 off the device. Then you just get the device from Ting. They have great dashboard great customer service
You can talk to human beings. They're a cool company and they're backed by two cows. So you can't you just can't lose check them out
linux.ting.com
All right, so
There's one story we have to talk about one more update. We haven't even gotten to the main show yet
This is what's happening. Jeez, man, some of the some of the tech talk today yesterday 50 minutes long
Whoa, that's unheard of I did tell it is worth listening to though. There is a story in there
There was a major technical snafu that happened to me as a result of production ongoing in the studio
I was gone that I did not expect. Oh, man. I share that story. It's
Embarrassing and it was super confusing. There's no way I could have ever predicted it
I don't think I could have ever foreseen the issue and I
Don't think I could have trouble shot or resolved it any faster than I did and there was no way for Noah to know
What was happening?
Yeah nightmares, so I tell that story in tech talk today yesterday
So let's talk about a story that we're all telling each other before the show started. You can now run the unity desktop
on Windows 10
Thanks to that bash on a boon to business
What is happening my life as I know it is upside down
Github user Guerrera 24 of course has managed to achieve this
After doing all sorts of tricks with compass config settings manager and all that goodness
He managed to run Ubuntu 1404 LTS with the Windows X server environment and then the unity desktop environment on top of that
There you go and then later because that wasn't good enough
Also got X FCE running on top nice. So the only question I have is wimpy
How long until Matei is running on Windows 10? I?
Will have to be a community endeavor because I will never run Windows 10. Personally. I don't know
I hear it's really taken off
Also piggyback on Windows convergence and you just run an Ubuntu on your Windows phone now and boom convergence as well done problem solved
Huh? Yeah. Okay. I do wonder though. Like is this really fun like opening up? Are we gonna see like less of the Macbook Unix?
Developer grace because now instead of getting the weird OS X older freeBSD user land
You can run Windows and have Outlook and Adobe and then also a real Linux, you know environment to work with you know
I think maybe I can't remember was daredevil and who was saying before the show
There this really is going to be one of the easiest ways to install Linux software
It really is going because there will be people who do all of the legwork all of the esoteric little
Hacks that you have to do and they'll package it all up in some sort of MSI or something and you'll be able to install
I bet you they'll be like vagrant support and like all kinds of stuff
Damn it was
We can run mumble in Ubuntu on you know, the Windows kernel right here
I'll tell you what the OS it surely was ten years ago
I saw Mac users that were attempting to run GIMP on Mac OS with X Windows on Mac OS
And now Apple doesn't even ship X 11 right back anymore. I think I think they'll try it, but it's such a jarring
Well, I don't know. I don't know. I shouldn't I shouldn't I to me
It feels like it's such a mishmash jarring difference that if you really want that as those tools you just run the Linux desktop
That's true, but you do get like you get Python you get Ruby the the shell even if it's
Dated and you don't get the nice like, you know have command-line arguments any which way you want
You can run a lot of the basic like deployment tools. I'll tell you what
I'll tell you what it does do I think and maybe Rekai would be a person to ask is
Rekai and does it does it make you?
Want to run Windows 10? So yeah Rekai is he's a he's a multi OS user
He he'll run them all but I would say his daily driver is the one that has his Steam library and game library
And that's his Windows 7 desktop, and he's sworn off Windows 8 sworn off Windows 10
But eventually, you know every Windows 7 user realizes they will have ability
It's that or abandon it and when you look at this and you go well shit
I Rekai is he likes to play with Linux tools and software too
And I you got to think this makes it a little more appealing to switch to Windows 10
So what I think it really does is it just sort of greases the ramp on to Windows 10 for more technical Windows users and
That even that kind of pisses me off because I think they would make good Linux can they would make a deal on its candidates
Yeah, so Rekai says in a way. Yes, it'd probably make developing Jboss Ruby stuff easy, right and the utility of it is just
infectious dammit, and I mean and then and it just it's just unfortunate because then
We fall back on the philosophy, you know, it's less of like look at what it can do
Because if you can use a Windows desktop to do 90% of what a Linux desktop you and not in the same way and not
With the same and it's not that the following back on the philosophy is bad. No, it's not
It's that the philosophy only speaks to a niche of the nation exactly exactly
Yeah, and then and when you're when you're trying to sell to somebody who's got to get some work done
The selling on the philosophy could be particularly I don't care. I just I have to get the work done
By Tuesday. Yeah. Yeah, so let's feel better about Linux. Oh, yes, you guys okay good
So there's some pretty cool technologies coming to the Linux. I'd say let's just call it the AV stack in Linux
Yeah, we all are users of pulse audio and most of us that we like it or not. Yeah, and
And also G streamer even a lot of KD users are G streamer users. So let's start with pulse audio
There's something pretty damn cool that could make future podcast users
Let's start with pulse audio. There's something pretty damn cool that could make future podcasts much better coming to pulse audio
So get get excited for all you podcast listeners out there that listen any Linux podcasts
That sound like they have crap audio because beamforming in pulse is coming to pulse audio
Now you might think of beamforming as a Wi-Fi technology, right? That's what we hear about most of it, especially in the newer standard
Yeah, it's a concept used in various aspects of signal processing including radio waves
But in this post they're talking about using it in audio the basic idea is that you have a number of microphones or a mic
Array in some known arrangement. It isn't it is then possible to point or steer the array in a particular direction
So sounds coming from that direction are made louder while sounds from other directions are rendered softer
Now practically speaking you could really see the value of this on a laptop
It doesn't have to be some big sophisticated mic array
For example, you might want to focus a mic on the person who's speaking on a laptop
Say you had a laptop microphone and you had something like the Logitech
930 here which or or c920 perhaps or 920 C
Super popular webcam one of the greatest I think also on sale on Prime Day. Oh really?
At least I saw some 920s on this is a that's a great webcam that works great with Linux
if you guys want to get it you should you should check it out and
And the that webcam has two microphones and in some situations like under Windows
It uses some Logitech software to actually use one microphone to listen to background noise and one microphone to listen to your face
I was about to say that's a great way to think about how this technology works
Like if you have you know microphones around the edge, you can you know that that certain sounds hitting those. Mm-hmm
You really want to subtract and that's just like certain high-end
Android devices do that for your calls the iPhones been doing that for years with your calls
They have multiple microphones and they use that to isolate your voice now
You could you know in a more sophisticated setup you could take advantage of a much wider array of mics
Right, but this is something that they're working on in the next version of pulse audio
That could be just as applicable to anybody that has a laptop that could make the pulse audio underlying software
Be able to focus on your mouth and and and cut out some of that background extra sound and warbles and all that
especially when it's like
You know, you really go from a situation where it's like you have one mic or you have three mics and right now it
Doesn't matter. Yeah
Six months when this is pushed to our laptops that you could have a noticeable difference in the sound quality
Yeah, I'm really excited about it because it you know
It could help contributors great pictures here. And if you follow the other link, he has a he has another article
He links to like labbookpages.co.uk. They've got graphs. They've got diagrams. They've got some C programs
You can compile and run yourself. It's really cool
this is one of the geeky is and coolest post and it it really helps you appreciate the amount of knowledge and
Research that these developers have to do that have been solving real problem and it has nothing to do with actually writing code other than it
Helps you design the the right code. In fact along those same lines this next update is another perfect example where they have they've done scientific
Studies they have done demos. They have they have graphs
G streamer is getting a virtual reality plug-in and something called sphere
SPH VR this is coming to a G streamer near you soon
And it's gonna make VR on the Linux desktop a little better. Now this whole whole post is
Frickin
Phenomenal, it's like it has an introduction to just the spherical coordinate system in general
Yeah, a little if you haven't done that for a while
It's a difficulty of understand like capturing the full information of spherical video and all the colors visuals that show that
Oh, it's it really gets me excited to play with G streamer
I played with it a little bit recently trying to do some some RTP streams for VoIP stuff
It's a fantastic
Library, there is so much you can do. It's so composable. It's awesome. I'm really excited to see like they're really pushing forward
You know, we set it with AI and Minecraft, but I feel like for VR now, we're finally seeing like, you know
Especially with like HoloLens and you get you kind of get like an oculus and the vibe not really supporting Linux
It gets depressing
You're like are we where's Linux on these frontiers of things that are really getting all the tech press these days and it's really cool
To see behind the scenes people working on it. Yeah, and and and that they're super sharp. Yes
It makes me want to help them. I mean like I don't know but makes me want to pick their brain, too
It's really good stuff. I also liked the announcement of sphere. So it's s again SPH VR
It's a python video player that's using these new G streamer VR plugins to give you a video player capable of opening
a URL which has a mapped spherical video
Coordinates in it and then it can play them back
And the other thing it can do is if you have like the like I do if you have the oculus DK 2 which is
The last oculus I got perfect
You'll be able to manage display rotations and stuff like that to work with the oculus use that is so cool
Super cool. So anyways, we got a little update on the VR front
Maybe it'll go nowhere
but it's nice to see it being done by really really smart sharp people and it being done at the infrastructure level and
All of this is open source. So you want to use it for your own things? Go for it?
I love that. I love that. I so I want to take a moment before we go any further and
I want to thank Noah
For stepping in and doing the hosting last week just did a phenomenal job and beyond just the actual hosting himself itself
Which is the least which is the least amount of work the actual show part where we sit here and talking to these microphones is
The most fun. It's the least amount of work
It's and it's the part you guys see all of the hard work is
Setting up for the show is in his case building the broadcast profiles over an OBS. Yeah. Yeah. I know you had to sit there
I know as thank you to you too for bait, you know
found Sunday to for stepping in on laughs on and and and keeping the chat room warm while Noah said all that no idea such a
Yeah, it's so much work
people have no idea how much work it is and you get a little if you watched live you might have got a glimpse of
How much and how how many millions of little things there are all those decisions?
Yeah, so I really appreciate it and you know
What's really great about Noah is he he didn't do it because he wants the mic time
He did it because he wants to make sure he loves the network
He wants the content to stick around and he doesn't want me to become like some crazy person who pees in jars and locks himself
in a theater
He wants to make sure I get out there and see the open road from time to time and actually take some time off and so
I really appreciate that and I you know
He takes his he takes the time out of his of his work and and you know his family and certainly has a busy life
It's it's really really appreciated also a big thank you to Ryan Ryan sipes from mycroft who's often on this show
He stepped in on last Sunday and co-hosted with no one did a great job and you know big
Thank you to Ryan for doing that
It's great to get insights from somebody out there who's working on a very interesting project right now and it's following these trends and it
Was Ryan amongst others who passed along our next story and it's called copperhead OS
It is a hardened open source operating system air quotes based on Android and air quotes
Only works with the more recent line of next side device I
But they say it has protection from zero-day exploits. It has firewall and network hardening. It's open source
So it's audited it has an unofficial port of packs
Nice, I don't know what that's about
But it's the packs by the way is the kernel self-protection and high quality
ASLR tool and it has a sandboxing and isolation for apps and services
So there you go. It's called
Copperhead I think it's pretty cool also just to see like obviously there are already are 5x 6p ROMs, etc
But this is kind of the one like the as still a user of the original Nexus 5
It was such a developer platform. So it's cool to see some more promotion around the 5x
Yeah, that sort of stuff makes me more more interested in getting one. Yeah, like it's still gonna be around for a while
I don't know about copperhead itself. So I'll put it out there to the audience if anybody has
Any experience with it or questions about it? I'd like to hear both
It seems pretty like we're waiting for feedback. I got I got a little bit of a sense from a few folks in
the chat room that there's a few concerns and in the pre-show some people are questioning the
How active perhaps you could say packs is anymore
Mm-hmm. So there's some questions still but like anything like this
There's a lot to get it right and how who knows like how much will track upstream. What's the delay on these patches?
It's yeah. Yeah. So anyways, thanks you. Thank you to Ryan for setting that into us and thank you to him again for sitting in
on the latex action show
And one last thank you the most important. Thank you. Really is is Rekai. I don't know if it comes across
probably not because
Basically every great decision that Noah has to make on the fly when he's on camera is probably being prompted by Rekai behind the scenes
If you see Noah waiting for something, it's Rekai's answer in telegram
Yeah, and it's Rekai that's down here at all different hours of the shows. He sets everything up
Yeah, it's crazy
And you know when I'm not here somebody has to be in here to turn this studio on
Which is a task that has to be done in a certain methodical process and I think at one point
He even got a curveball of a power outage
Which is one of the worst things that happens in this studio be just because and things have gotten better since we switched to OBS
So it's not as bad as it used to be but as fate would have it
There is a bug in Antigros with ZFS
No, yeah
And it and it's one that he's reported in the past that they marked fixed that still exists that prevents the OBS rig from booting
Turns out we don't reboot it very often. So we had just about it
Well, we had since they marked it fixed and we've been keeping up to we've been keeping up to date
We assumed it was fixed and wouldn't have an issue with the next reboot turns out
So not only did he have to you know
Really provide assets when no one needed them and answer questions and give guidance and pick better titles than Noah picked
But he also had to like deal with those kinds of issues. So a huge thank you goes out to Rekai
so really all of you guys made it possible and I really appreciate it and
Noah's even threatened about offering to do it again sometime. Wow
What a guy I know that guy that guy so Wes we have to talk about
Elias Elias Nihilus
This is something that we've debated if we should really discuss on the show for a while because it's one of those
Areas that you're gonna not like it's a weird spot
I'm gonna tell you about it and you're gonna be like this sounds like a horrible idea
It has a back-end server side that collects all your email and processes it
It's a fork of atom. It's what's it's an electron app basically, right?
That's what is that fair or it's you know, it's a it is a web app that is packaged as a desktop application and
They want to charge you for the mail client eventually. So those are all things you hate and
You probably wonder why we'd be talking about it
And I'll give you a reason if they're doing a couple of things that are extremely interesting
mostly
around the funding model about going open source and
About creating a sustainable long-term email client when the future of Thunderbird is a little questionable
So that's that's an alias and you've been using it for a little while
I have been and it's we'll call it let's just call it and one that's the current version
Yeah, and why do why did you pick it up? Why did you try it?
You know
At work. I had some reasons to be I still had a Windows environment
I hadn't interact with and then some things changed and so I didn't need Outlook for a certain set of niche features
Exchange features etc. And so I was really looking for like a Linux. I was like well everything else
I do obviously is in a Linux environment. And so I was looking for something that had maybe exchange support
but at least was like a a
Functional maybe pretty
Desktop client with just basic email support. I don't do that much
I have email my phone as well, of course
And I was interested because it was open source. I've also kind of followed some of their blogs
They do I have a lot of blogs about like Python deployment
They have a cool tool that turns virtual environments into dev packages that I've used personally at work
and
I also liked that it was like yeah, okay, it's paid
Maybe that's okay. We've talked a lot
We want to talk about we have talked about sustainable development and open source
But they had a build it yourself use it. So I have played with that a little bit
I'm running so you're running so you can host your own server component if you want to build it. Yes, the Nylas sync engine
I've had some issues with stability in that like I usually have to restart it a couple of times a week to get it to
It seems to get into a state where it doesn't really check updates anymore, or it doesn't at least
The client no longer syncs those upstate updates down. I've actually had that issue with the with their hosted server, too
Yeah, so I don't know if that's not I I will admit
I'm probably at least one or two weeks behind on their current version. So that may be fixed. I I wouldn't know
But it is pretty cool there are some limitations like the exchange support you don't get the
Active sync protocol in the open source version
So you're limited to IMAP Gmail that kind of stuff just probably comes down to a licensing thing
Yes, I'm sure they're licensing some proprietary implementation or something like that. That's how my I'm probably Microsoft roles. Yeah, right exactly
But it is nice it does work well
But you also then lose a lot of the features of the pro like they have like link track like click tracking
They have that kind of stuff. I will also say that with this move. They do seem to be pushing the pro pretty hard
Yeah, so before you could download their
Pre-compiled files from their website and then you had to make some can they have a JSON config file?
You had to edit it and then you had to like change the environment from production to custom and you put in the URL to
Your server location and they also don't provide any authentication for that. So it's all plain text HTTP
From the server to the client. So you have to provide your own, you know, SSL proxy or I use
S-pipe D by the developer of
Tarshnap, which is an awesome. Yeah, easy easy to use thing, but it does work and it is it is cool
It's kind of neat to have like an intermediary that sinks everything down and then kind of proxies your client
Why do you work way? Well, they just made like searching works pretty well
The responses are nice the interface so their server-side processing that makes the client experience better. Yeah, I don't know how much better
There's also some losses right like you have to you have to restart this process that doesn't work that well
at least in the versions I've tried and now I install their latest version and I can't quite seem I might have to just sign in once
But I can't seem to get it even though I've changed the config file. I can't get it to reference my server
So maybe they might have changed it so that you can build it in as a component option. I don't know
Wimpy, did you have a question?
Yeah, Wes. Did you say you're running your own instance of the sync engine? I am and
Are you in did you install that using vagrant or vSync?
Is that using vagrant or virtualbox or are you running it on the metal or in docker or something?
I took their vagrant file and then just ran it myself built it built it myself following the vagrant file instructions
It's running in an LXC container
Okay, and once it's running do you need to I mean the instructions here just say, you know start it
is that all that you need to do is start it and then so the client talks to it and you
Configure your accounts that way or do you need to poke at the sync engine at all?
It seemed like a little intermediate you can tell that they've focused really on
The like they have their own authentication
they've rolled a lot of their own stuff that maybe isn't open source or they haven't open sourced it yet for their pro service or
Their you know, they're their hosted service
So the way that I had to do it at least when I initially configured it was first you run
A command that adds your first account to it
Like I just used a gmail account or you can use an IMAP account or whatever and then you run
One service it's kind of like a micro service architecture
so you run one service that's their API that you you talk to and then you run another service that actually does the
background syncing with your various upstream accounts
Right, and then and then once you've got those two running
It should just work you you have to you have to manually edit your config file to add your new account information. There's like a
Account ID you ID that you plug in you plug in the email address and some other things
And then the in this certain the API URL and it for in the passage been working
I did have these stability problems as I was mentioning, but otherwise it did work
Well, I've been using it talking to the IMAP interface to an exchange server just fine
It's been pretty nice. Have you tried it wimpy?
No, not the not the self host sync engine. I tried nihilus
Way way way back when it was first out with a you know
A gash account just to sort of get a feel for it. Yeah. Yeah, I so I'm always I'm not the reason
I was interested in the experiences with the sync engine is the only way I would run this is if I was hosting my own
And like I couldn't at work. I couldn't run it if I wasn't because I can't you know, I yeah
You can't talk to your exchange server with weird without doing that. Yeah, and that's that's so here's what they say
So there's there's a transition happening and I think what maybe I don't want to speak for wimpy
But I you know West have had conversations with you
we don't love email, but it is just a it's a it's a fundamental part of our job and
something that can help us sort through different different hats that we wear and
And and triage our email and one of the things I really like about it is it does really good
So when I when I open up my inbox, I often talk about it
I called the inbox monster and I go in there say before a show before Linux unplugged and I want to read some emails
But what happens is at the top of my inbox are really super important emails
I need to reply to really quickly and that's where I wait. So the system that n1 lets me do with
Setting reminders and coming back
It allows me to triage my inbox in a pretty effective way and I like that some of those things sync across multiple devices
and whatnot. Yep, so they say n1 is free as a free as in beer and
Due to its popularity the API traffic for n1 users has dramatically eclipsed the combined volume of all other apps. They've built
They already seen several hundred terabytes of data for their users and they're adding tens of thousands of new users each month
Which cost them real dollars and the way they write this it's plain spoken. It's it's clear English
It's not that Red Hat speak that way I got I kind of people were like, you know
I was just kind of having fun, but it was very corporate speak. This is very clear
They say it very straightforward
We're a small venture funded company with a goal of creating a long-term
Sustainable business that fuels innovation for email and I will say obviously the caveat is they chose to make a service where they yeah
Relying on the self-hosting. Yeah, but that's their business model and they say it up front
So it is it really is plain spoken. They kind of make the case for why they think that's a good model right in here
they also say
They that really if they're gonna make a sustainable business the law on the long-term horizon
They see a risk of continuing to subsidize the free beer version of n1
Companies like mailbox did this and were forced to sell or shut down before they found their business model
They say in reality the beer unfortunately always runs out
Which is something we talked about on the show
And so I do kind of like it that they have a clear revenue model and they they take the ad thing and they just they
Just they just address it directly. They say why not show ads
Well, if that's not for us companies like Google and Yahoo provide free email services by mining your data and serving targeted ads based on
the content
That's not the way they think that's not the way they want to do business
They say while this is potentially lucrative it goes against our principles and it's not the business we aim to build
We think there's a better way. So with their quote-unquote pro version. They're announcing a premium version of n1
It allow you to continue n1. You can use the nihilist cloud or you can use it for free on your own with your own
Hosted server so their revenue their revenue system their model here basically breaks down to
We have a reasonable priced version. We've open sourced it and we implement it for you and you can pay us or
If you don't want to pay you can go through all the trouble that West just went through and you can run it yourself
Is that is that is that a fair model or is that just basically?
One hair shy of not releasing the whole thing because you're not necessarily providing pre-built builds necessarily, right?
You're not necessarily providing any
Documentation you're not making any real clear design choices in the n1 client to make it support the self hosted sync server
So is that really legitimate West? I will also say it's interesting
That's a great question. Also
They're kind of adding like a new link in the chain here where it's like
There's plenty of services where you're like do I want premium email to and to pay for it?
And I don't have like email or the gmail you they read your stuff making me month pay monthly for email
But they don't host it
This is just an intermediate like you're still connecting it to an other email account that you may pay like maybe we have fastmail
And then you pay also for nihilist to connect to when the irony is if you have it in gmail
Are you really that worried about this about your data sensitivity that's in gmail
If you really care of n1 sniffing through it
I don't so what do you think West is this a legitimate model they get to write open source all over this blog post
I want let's let's do a little search here, so let's search for let's do a search for open
Let's do a search for open just open because I don't want to do two words
So there's 13 references if I narrow it down to source 10 references
So they've referenced open source 10 times in this blog post
Wow, do they legit it can they do you think do you feel like they can legitimately consider themselves an open source project I?
Don't know I mean, it's pretty close
It does seem to be and I'll I'll do some follow-up
I'll make sure I recompiled everything with the latest stuff and yeah, it all still works
But as long as they give you that option where you can self host you're comfortable
I mean, I don't about comfortable
It doesn't make me necessarily want to use their service and I think they are harping on that pretty hard
And they are also kind of you know they started out with it, and they switched
But I mean they are being transparent
But it is still kind of like a we were excited for the free thing and it was like the years that we're gonna
Switch and so it kind of it changes. Here's the good guy thing they did though
Anybody who's using n1 now got a coupon to use the paid service for a year for free yes
So that's not cheap for them to do a couple of stats to throw at you
Just you know is it an open source project well
I one of the things I like about n1 is they've shipped 26 major updates
Mm-hmm they are legitimately iterating on this product
That's why I think you need to find a revenue model that doesn't mind my data
Which is even more important when they have any mediary they launched new features like snoozing and send later and read receipts and link tracking
Which are?
Intensely helpful for me when I do certain reports. I really appreciate that
They have scaled their back end by 20 times over
They have had
1,000 and 200 github issues resolved 130 poll requests 24 new themes launched 20 new plugins
50 outside contributors and the repo has 17,000 stars ranking it 70 number 75
Across everything on github. It's actually ranked higher than elastasearch ansible go or kubernetes Wow
so I
Want them to find it. I I do you know what the monthly price is here
I know there's a month monthly seven dollars a month or something like that. That might be wrong
Yeah, I got a look
I'm gonna play with I've been using it for a few days because email is a big problem for me, right?
And all my emails essentially public anyways and most of what I read on air some of it's not but the stuff
That's not again. It wouldn't wouldn't ruin me if I got published. There's nothing really
There's no Snowden leaks in there or something right and the email that I'm super serious about
I have PGP encryption and I go ahead
I was gonna say and they've had some pretty cool pairing with keybase. Yeah work that into the client
They also have been working with them. So if you use Nihilus, you can jump the line on keybase and get yourself a keybase count
Oh, that's cool. I didn't know about that cuz I already have a keybase account. So that's cool
Um keybase is I don't know you maybe you're not a big fan of keybase out there
But for me it makes it makes GPG encryption approachable to just about every audience member and I have had people take advantage of it
To send me confidential things and I'm extremely thankful for this for that service
so integrating that support into my mail client because it's already the workflow I'm using is
That might be worth the price of admission right there and it's pretty neat
Like I tried it out a little bit. Maybe you and I should send some email later
Hello, you know
you just like you go in there and you can search for your keybase friends or people you know on keybase or people on
Keybase and then you add their keys and then when you send emails or them you have the option of encrypting it using their keybase
And that's how it should be. Yeah, right because it's it's and and it's backed by legitimate GPG security
So it's I like it. So n1 it's interesting to see a oh and of course, it's cross-platform
It's not just a Linux app either. So that's also electron. Yeah, it's very it's very useful
They talk a little bit about how they forked it from from Adam in there
Which I thought was really kind of fascinating the UI is nice. It has a dark theme
It does. Yeah, the only I've just had so I've had a few bugs. My main my main bug is
I I tend to leave my email running on one of my virtual desktops all the time and after about 24 hours
I get it integrates with gnome desktops notifications
So I get notifications of new mail arriving, but when I switch to the mail client nothing new in the list after closing
So still some things to work out, but it's it's open. Yeah, I don't know mumble room. Hey mumble room. Maybe you know any
Any any thoughts before we move on?
anyone else
No, look at that West
Nothing. Nobody thinks anything about n1 about Thunderbird about email on Linux about about how to fund open-source
Development sustainably didn't we solve everything with web?
Outlook 365
Nobody wants email on their desktop as an app as a standalone application, even if it is an electron app
No, that is am I?
What you do is you use Firefox as an app or Chrome as an app, you know market
Yeah, I know solve that your web-based works or pin tag is pin tabs. Mm-hmm. I use Thunderbird quite happily
I love Thunderbird
Seriously, yeah, maybe we should all be using deco rotten corpse drop this one in there a nice leaf
It's got now desktop convergence in there
This is a pretty nice looking mail client that will be one of probably the premier mail clients
Maybe one of the top apps once the new unity desktop ships
So this is it works in mobile and it works in desktop config. And if you think about it
Screw sinking. I just want the same application in whatever form factor. I'm using
I want the same exact application with the same exact set of data. That's the way to do it
I don't need some back-end sink
So I like deco check it out. We got a link to an OMG Ubuntu article that talks about it
It looks pretty cool. Dan Chapman is the one that was talking about it on Google+. Cool, Dan. Nice work
Check it out deco d e k k. Oh, that's important
Yeah
now if you want to get the skills to pay the bills and maybe set up your own n1 server check out Linux Academy at
Linux Academy comm slash unplug
support this show and get yourself a discount at Linux Academy a platform to learn more about all of the technologies around Linux the core
Fundamentals and all the great technologies that we all talk about all the time and also things like open stack and AWS
Which is definitely its own monster and the dev ops quote-unquote category
which used to sound like a joke and now it's like a full legitimate category that people do as a full-time jerk and then
Astonishingly enough as your courseware too. It's here. Ladies and gentlemen, it's here. They're adding stuff all the time
They have great material
They have a system that will help you regardless of how much time you have available a little bit of time a whole lot
Of time Linux Academy has a system for you. They have availability planners
You can plug it all in there when you're available to create courseware. They have great pre-done courses
You can follow with really easy to understand sex sections. You'll go in there. You're logging into a dashboard
You'll see how much work you have to do. You can download the material listen to it offline
Instructor mentoring is available when you want it assessments and note cards are great features and the practice exams are one of my favorites
They also have great study tools a community full of Jupiter broadcasting members and hands-on scenarios that will give you a real-world experience
So if you want to go set up a mail server on your own
Why don't you try it out first in the lab learn to do it the right way get a hands-on experience because once you set
Something up like that you hit the ground running and you never look back. I think this is a great tool
Check it out at linuxacademy.com slash unplug give yourself a discount and support this show
Thanks to Linux Academy for sponsoring the unplug program and thanks to you for visiting linuxacademy.com slash
unplug
So Wes I could try to stumble all over myself and try to describe what matrix is
They describe themselves as an open standard for decentralized
communication or group collaboration a fully distributed
persistent chat room with no central authority the missile the missing signaling layer for web
RTC it's like slack, but way better. It's like matter most but way more
It's like XMPP, but people really use it maybe
Yeah, and and there's some really interesting developments around it, too
So to kick it off if you're not familiar with it. Let's start with an interview
I did last year at OSCON with a matrix developer. Oh
Hold on. Hold on. Did you you could hear it right way?
Yeah, you could hear it, but you know what you were hearing it only to you were hearing it
It's me when I say it to Noah. I'm gonna send it to you
Infrastructure and got quite depressed in the end because it was meant to be like this email
but for open video except in practice nobody has CPR eyes on their business cards and
The open Federation the open interoperability thing just hasn't really quite taken off
So we went through wrote some alternative to set based on HTTP
Just a really simple HTTP API or if I want to set up a video called somebody I do one hit
With the offer of what media I want to talk and you do one hit back with the answer and that's it
We're in a call
So none of the complexities of set with all the you know, it's a UDP is it TLS is a TCP
It's a this version is of that version so it's quite old and very fragmented
Just doing it as an HTTP works a lot better. And that's one of the things you can use with matrix
I think that matrix isn't just about open video. You can also use it for instant messaging
We've got the little drone sitting down there, which we're about to launch as an internet of things
And demo where you can go and get the video off it by matrix, but you can also control it
We want some hooks up people's cars to matrix
So the car kind of sends out telemetry as little blobs of Jason into matrix and you can go and consume it anywhere else
So basically matrix is a big open
Decentralized object database with pub subs come out and semantics so that anybody can publish any random data
They want and they could be a message or whatever over here on the screen
Am I seeing like a persistent group chat environment kind of looks like a bit like IRC and messaging
Yeah, yeah
So this is one of the classic things you can do with matrix use it as a persistent group chat thing
This is an angular environment
And there are a couple of hundred chats going on there
A lot of these are bridge for into free node free node have been very cool and let us gone and actually bridge matrix into free
node or vice-versa
Here's another view of the same room say but a more slack like environments and this one's written in react
And so this is kind of like a like a team collaboration
Sort of version of it sitting on top of the matrix object database
So and and so I assume in this I could have text image video audio all those things in here
Yeah
So any Jason you like so well you can hear these are just instant messages with people trying to do weird shit with UTF 8
But if we go back to this one if you double click on stuff like a message like test there
You can see it's just arbitrary Jason
So it could be a M room message or if you were doing a video cool
Yeah, it could be a bit uglier
It's a M cool invite and you've got the description of the media for that cooler, but it could be drone control
It could be a car telemetry whatever the hell and my program my app just needs to be able to read this and know what?
To do with it. Yeah, precisely
So we I want to stop right there because he's about to talk about servers to find some standard types like M dot cool
Anything that begins M dot is matrix and it's part of our spec and this is where we're gonna pick up
So I'll let him just finish off his thoughts here. So matrix itself is not a one particular
Project it's where it gets interesting. Yeah, it's not just like we're madder most is the entire thing here, but it's like Java namespace
So if you wanted to have a I know come dot Google
Whatever the hell people might use it for then just feel free go nuts put data room
So if I wanted to roll this out, what's my what's my back-end structure look like? Is it a Linux server?
What's running on so we're providing one reference over at the moment, which is written in Python and twisted and
It's about 30,000 lines of code
It's pretty beat up
But it works well enough to have rooms with like a thousand people in it and a couple of hundreds and service participating and it runs
Any OS that can support Python really?
Some of that is it could be Debian
They've got some Docker files Susie images fedora images and even somebody made it run on Windows
So that during so that was 2015 when they had the one implementation now, we're gonna fast-forward to 2016
Let's see. How are they doing? Well, there's a couple of new contenders West you found a ruma
Which is a matrix home server written in rust a home server like families or what?
So it was a home server like a like your base and then you connect to other server. What's the home? Yeah, exactly. So
part of the power of matrix is kind of the federation angle so you
Can make an account and you identify with a home server and then those home servers integrate with other home servers as part of the larger
Matrix, yeah, pretty neat. Yeah, and so
An application like this written in rust is pretty compelling itself just because of the advantages of something like this being written in rust
But then there's something that has a lot of momentum behind right now
The chairman was just talking about it during that interview and that's vector and vector is an open source
Collaborate collaboration app. They say it's production ready and it's built on top of the matrix open standard and they have Android apps
They have a really nice looking you are well polished
Yeah, it really does look good
And so these are full featured collaboration suites that involve not just chat and then connected in with IRC
But web RTC and document transfer and all this kind of stuff. What would what would you see like a work use case for you?
in matrix
Well, you know we at my work and we've we've used slack. We also use Skype for business and they kind of meet different needs
It'd be interesting if those were integrated. Mm-hmm
Also, just like with rocket chat and the other things we've checked out slack as proprietary you lose control in particular at my office
Like there's like multiple teams have different slack accounts
And also if you don't use their paid account you start losing messages really fast as we're aware, right?
So this would be interesting and the other cool part is slack has like their bridges like the IRC bridge people
Really like that but matrix does that too? And so like they have they even have a slap slack bridge
I haven't tried it. I'd be really interested to try it, but it just like it sounds so extensible
yeah, it's like a plumbing system for collaboration and
They when I when I talked to them, I was really the interview is it's much longer. It's
There's at least another four minutes in that interview and then I probably talked to him for 15 minutes
I have the interview linked in the show notes if you want to hear the other four minutes and
It it was really they were so far ahead of the puck
So when when I had to put this in context when I was talking to him
This was more than a year ago slack was
This newish thing that just seemed like IRC that I thought was a joke
And I didn't really it what nobody talked about at the time and they were talking about something
That's ten times more than slack and they were just so far ahead of the of where the puck was going that I think they're
Still ahead of it. And so that's why with these servers just now a year later kind of coming out
I think they're just on time really anyways, it's a it's a fascinating open source project
We've talked about a few of them this week. I will say also just seeing their connection with sip
That's a technology that is deployed at massive scale today. Yeah, you know and and so just if
Have that kind of pedigree
It makes me confident that they can deploy things that really do scale and can develop a protocol that might actually work
Yeah, and you know spider oak is working on something kind of like this called SEMA for and we're gonna have a quick review
By mr. Ham radio in the post show. So SEMA for is another thing kind of like this
Yeah, there you go. So vector and ruma and they're all matrix implementations
Really kind of neat thing. So that is a lot to process if you guys want to read more about it
We'll have links in the show notes Linux action show dot reddit commas where you go for any of the feedback topics
We have posed to you this week. I will toss it to the mumble room one more time
Mumble room. Is there anything you'd like to add before we go OMG OMG OMG? No, no, there you go
You see you could be part of our virtual log and have nothing to contribute at this point to buy coin. Please do
IT there's really nothing there's not much more to say is there that's really I just give my go try it come back next week
And let us know what I miss them, you know, I missed this mumble room
So I gotta give them a little bit of a hard time
Yeah, if you've tried to if you've played with any of this stuff really let us know what you think Linux action at reddit comm
Or even better show up live. Here's how you do that
Go to Jupiter broadcasting comm slash calendar and then go over there get your get this show converted to your local times
Or any of the shows you would like to attend we have it all listed there and it converts automatically to your time zone
That's how we go
That's how we roll and then JB live TV is where you go to watch it and you join the chat room
you do a bang mumble in there and
The j-bot who stands by waiting for your commands will let deliver you the info
Then we just do a quick mic check and you're in mumble is pretty cool like that
It really is although you threw me a crew of curveball second year in a row. Where would I go?
I went somewhere last year where Noah hosted and you had to do push to talk and mumble. Oh, right. Yeah. Yeah
I sat down to do tech talk today and I was like, um, why can't they hear me and bit freeze and he's like
We can't hear you Chris. I'm like I can hear you and it took me about ten seconds. Oh, man. It wasn't a big deal
I figured all you guys push to talk. Yep. It's push. Oh, sorry. Yeah, so we like it if you have a headset
Yeah
You we like it if you use push to talk and we just check your audio and if you pass those things and you have some
Info in something insightful or interesting you want to say about one of the Linux topics with more
We'd be more than happy to have you join us in the mumble room
It's it really is our virtual log and if you can't go out and meet with people and meet space
Why not get the next best thing right here right here at the Linux unplugged program and that?
Brings us to an end
We have avoided the lawnmower one more time. Just barely just barely watch out. He's coming back. We got to sneak out of here
Thank you guys for tuning in
Don't forget to submit content if there's something you didn't hear us talking about or if there's something just burning inside your soul
Maybe a compliment you want to make maybe you want to welcome me back
It wouldn't that be nice Linux action show dot reddit comm you'll find a thread for 153 in there
And then you can also go over to the contact page at Jupiter broadcasting comm slash contact and send us in some feedback
Okay, that brings us to an end of this week's show. We'll see you right back here next Tuesday
You hear that do you hear that that sounds that sounds out of here that sounds like a lawnmower oh
My oh, they ruin the end
JB titles comm JB titles comm get out of here most of the web runs on servers powered by Linux like that one
Yeah, actually I think that one might actually run on BST
Huh is that true reciters that does that run on on Linux now most of the web runs on servers powered by Linux
Hey look poppy made I secretly use Arch Linux. Oh wait that was that was poppy. I miss poppy
I do too. I haven't seen him for a few weeks
He's on holiday oh good for him well that makes me happy so there you go
I did see I did see like a post recently. I think I did know that JB titles calm JB titles calm
Let's go over there ladies and gentlemen
If we could all direct our attention to bang suggest calm or JB titles calm, haha
Whatever makes you happier. There's been 93 title suggestions in the last 24 hours
Now we just need to go through those sons of bitches
Be gentle with them everyone. Let's just sort them out
Bring the best of the top who doesn't like a little up though now and again over at JB titles
Make that our make that arrow
Take off
Niche Android OS horrible
Quantum of solace
Horrible those are horrible topics horrible titles Linux Mon go horrible
Unity on Windows kind of funny. Yeah kind of
so
Yeah, Windows United
Your vote matters over JB titles calm it might not matter
anywhere else
But a JB titles you make an actual difference not that it was the core of the show
But go and get solace is good. That's good. I like it. Yeah, I like it
You know you know what we need to get more of is
Direct lines from the show because I like when I'm listening to podcasts and I hear a direct sentence
I'm like oh, that's mm-hmm, so we should do more of those two those are those are kind of fun. Thank
You guys in the mom room for being here. Oh, yeah, we're super appreciate it. You guys are great
I'm turning your son's training the spider kid. Oh, oh
He is my kid
Minecraft maniac really oh boy anyways
I said we'd we'd hear from a ham and get his review of SEMA for so let's bring him in hey
Good good. I'm good. I'm good. What are you up to over there in Idaho?
Oh
Too much checking out SEMA for SEMA SEMA
SEMA
Tell me what do you got all over your hands SEMA for what is this is this like a slack killer?
It is but I don't think quite yet
Okay, so when I saw this I tell you what it got me excited
Probably even maybe irrationally is that it's made by spider oak, and I thought that was pretty cool
That is cool. However. It's not quite there yet. Oh, oh, so it says the world's first zero knowledge
Collaboration tool is here now. They say it's here right there him they say in the first sentence
Now you can collaborate productively and by the way privately because guess what your ideas matter
That's right. Hashtag channels exist and you can create teams for your company for your fam and for your friends
You just your BFFs. So what didn't you like about it?
Well, it's still early days
There's no Android client yet. It's coming soon. Okay, so I only have the chance to test it on the desktop
The nice thing is is it does come in Debian and RPM packages. Oh, so
completely native to Linux
They have Windows 7 and Mac support on iOS port
And we're coming soon
The
You can create a channel, but you can't lead a channel
You can't edit messages
You can't delete messages. Hmm. I
Tried posting in a YouTube link and you know, it just gave YouTube link. It didn't like actually have the show up
I do like the link preview because then you know, it's worth your time clicking or not
That's one of the nice things that matter most does my thing matter most does that super well and so does slack
Yeah, I agree. Now these things are coming in
Upcoming versions. Hmm. It's just not there yet. Well
Interesting. I mean I like this from spider oak and the thing that they said that they kind of got my attention
Was that it's it's it's zero knowledge on their part. So they
Definitely. Yeah, and they hackers love weak passwords that say to protect your security and privacy
SEMA 4 will generate a secure recovery queue for you at signup and then store it in a safe place
SEMA 4 will generate a secure recovery queue for you at signup and then store it in a safe place. Which they email to you. Huh?
That's interesting. They email that to you. So don't ever lose that. Print it
Yeah, I'm curious what the intended market for this product is
Is it like? I think it's like it's like people who want Dropbox and and slack in one thing maybe
Okay. All right. Okay. So the Dropbox thing I get because they're you know
Zero knowledge encryption for spider oak one makes perfect sense. Yeah. Yeah, but for a
chat tool
that is
Primarily adopted by development teams these days. Why does that need to be zero knowledge and encrypted?
It seems unnecessary and overkill. I'm not sure. You know where I could see this for is journalists, maybe
What about that? What about journalists who want to collaborate within something like slack? Yeah
Yeah, sure. That's pretty nice. No, because they could also just run their own matter most instance
Right journalists won't do that. They know they know they won't know they won't typically. Yeah, I think that I think that's a good one
I think I think you've you found you found the market that I was struggling to identify
Boy, I mean, I'm I like that spider oak is doing this. I
Myself, I'm not really all that tempted ham. What what tempted you to try it? Was it just the spider oak name or what?
That and it's just the zero knowledge, you know
Just a complete security and privacy for all these things. You need to keep totally secure and private in Idaho over there
Exactly exactly
It kind of integrates with their spider oak one backup, you know, I dig that kind of separate
But yeah, and you use it uses some of the spider oak infrastructure to send files and whatnot, which is good
Yeah, yeah, it's slightly more expensive than
The slack because I think you said slack is six dollars a user user. Yeah, so you can try it for free
Now do they have their own hosted? Do they have their own hosted server or how's that work ham?
Did did you you run it off if they're talking about it being zero information? They must run all of these services components, correct?
Yes, there is no way as far as I have seen to run your own server
the
They charge nine dollars a user
So there so their market is people who don't want to go through the hassle of setting up their own server
But still want to have trust in the security of it
Exactly and there is probably something to that if you know if I was to set up my own matter most server
This spider would probably be even more secure than that really. Yeah
You know to be honest at least after the first couple of weeks cuz I'm not going back in that thing once I got
set up
They do have so they have standard and pro which is standard is you can have you know unlimited teams unlimited history
$9 a month standard, which is everybody pays their own clean $9
Protein is where the leader of a team pays for everybody else, which is still nine dollars. That's kind of nice
Yeah, they have they do have a basic and version which is what I'm trying out now
It's it and you can have unlimited people but it's still but you know, it's only 30-day history. Hmm
So are you gonna stick with it for a bit or are you gonna move on?
Trying it out, I mean, there's no reason for me to uninstall it. I mean, you know, it's a free version stuff as
As right now as your buddy Richard says what's wrong with that? Yeah, what's wrong with that?